		The Helpful Handout of How to Become a Bard

		Criteria established by Mercedes Lackey

		Based on the Heralds of Valdemar trilogy

Distributed by: 

                                           Queen's Own 
                             The Official Mercedes Lackey Fan Club 
                                           P.O. Box 749 
                                  Laguna Beach, CA 92652 USA

Basic Requirements

I. Rolling for Musical Gifts

To be accepted at the Bardic Collegium you must have two of the three; Bardic Gift, Talent, or Creativity.
To determine your persona's skills, throw one six-sided die twice. Bard's honor applies; what you roll is
what you get. 

Die Roll    Musical Gift          Description

 1-2        Bardic Gift      	Empathy, the ability to project a mood 
				and influence an audience
 3-4         Talent		A combination of skill and aptitude
 5-6         Creativity         The ability to compose music


II. Develop a Character

Develop a character (your persona--Who would you be if you could daydream yourself into Valdemar? Be the "real" you or as different as you please.) and write about him/her. Prepare a minimum of 3 double-spaced pages, on 8.5 x 11 inch paper or computer printout paper. If you can't type, please write or print as clearly as possible. 

This is a biography. Describe your persona's physical and emotional characteristics, likes and dislikes, whatever makes you uniquely you. You may use first or third person. (10 points.) 

III. Deveop One or More Friend or Relative Characters

You needn't be quite so detailed in your descriptions of these other characters. But remember, you are writing about people you know well. Describe what your family and/or friends look like, their own
character traits, etc. Again, a minimum of 3 pages. (5 points) 

IV. Extra Point Requirements (5 points each)

Choose and complete the requirements for two (minimum) of the following: 

 A.Write a story of more than 3 pages.** 
 B.Design/or create a costume. *1, *2 
 C.Be able to comment intelligently on current events. Do not rely on one source of information. 
 D.Join a local folk-dancing group or community chorus. 
 E.Write an essay on the Bill of Rights and Constitutional Amendments. Prepare a minimum of 3 double-spaced pages, on 8.5 x 11 inch paper or computer printout paper. 
 F.Compose a song: music and/or lyrics. 
 G.Learn to play a musical instrument. 
 H.Perform; it doesn't have to be professional. *3 
 I.Choose an old ballad/myth. Retell it in your words. 
 J.Learn the history of your region. *4 
 K.Write letters about social problems to newspapers. 
 L.Become a reporter for your school newspaper. 
 M.Send a story, poem, or art to one of our zines. *5 
 N.Draw a map. *6 

**This story is in addition to your character sketches, even if they were done in story form. Remember, if you wish to write a story set in Misty's worlds, you need a release form. Send QO a SASE for the form. Fill it out and mail it to Misty at Highflight, P.O. Box 8309, Tulsa, OK, 74101-8309. Misty isn't trying to spoil our fun, but she must protect her interests. You do not need a release for a character sketch, poem or filk. 

*1 Design: Draw a picture of, or make a pattern for a costume. It must be original. Send a picture or sketch of your design with as much detail as possible.
*2 Create: The costume may be your own or another's design, but you must make it yourself. This involves actual sewing.
*3 How about going caroling? Entertaining at a local nursing home? Holding a song-circle party regularly? Acting out stories at the local library or day care center?
*4 Tell the legends, the history of the first settlers, geography, weather patterns, etc. Where do you get your water? What happens to the contents of the storm sewers? Where does the trash go?
*5 These can be duplicates of the Bard's requirements. Tell me the name of the zine and what you submitted.
*6 Show the surroundings of your persona--childhood home, journeys, route to the Collegium, etc.

After you have acquired 25 points, you may claim your scarlets or wear your ribbons!

Remember to roll for your Musical Gifts first. Most musical ability manifests itself early in life. 

In order to be formally recognized in the Queen's Own newsletter as having fulfilled the requirements established by Misty, you must send QO hard copies of your work. Be sure to list the Gifts you rolled for!
Please type; if you cannot, please make everything as legible as possible. Please send the material to me all at once, and in a flat envelope. You've worked hard on this project, treat it with the respect you want me to show it. Because we all believe in Honor, the decision was made to include your Bard designation in the Fan Messages if that is how you identify yourself. 

Developing Your Character

One persona to a customer, please. If you outgrow your persona, you may develop a new one, but recognition in the newsletter goes to first-time personas. 

Each individual is free to develop material in accordance with the setting described in Misty's books; however, her copyrighted characters may not be used for this purpose. You many not claim to be directly related to any of Misty's characters. In other words, you can't be Elcarth's son or Ancar's daughter or Rune's long-lost cousin. Make your own status. You also cannot use Misty's copyrighted characters as major characters in any story you may write. If they're just passing through, that's okay. 

Stay within the rules of the Books--Characters should stay within Talia's time, and use an alternate time-line in which Kris doesn't die but staggers into camp about a day after Dirk rescues Talia. For a
Free-Bard use a time-line in which Tonno doesn't die but continues to befriend Rune and encourage her. This keeps the world you live in and the one Misty writes about comfortably and legally separate. Your character may be any sex you choose. No Royalty. For those of you who wish to be Minstrels, go right ahead. Minstrels are important, too! 

A persona is like a biography. In it, you want to describe your character so fully that anyone reading it will feel s/he knows you: what you look like (tall/short, slim/stocky, hair color, eye color, dark or light
complexion, smooth/callused hands, etc.), how you get along with other members of your family, where and when you were born and grew up (castle/cottage/tent, town/farm/desert), how you were trained
(school/tutor/apprentice), a few of your favorite things (summer rain/cherry pie/kittens), what you did in your spare time, your skills (riding/weaving/fighting/cooking/healing/playing a musical instrument), those things which make you the unique and very special person you are. Being a Bard shouldn't come free--You should have to work for it. 

Helpful Hints

* Put your name on absolutely everything you send to QO. If you want it 
  back, supply us with an address label and sufficient postage. Better 
  yet, send us copies and keep the originals. Even better, see the e-mail 
  option below to save on postage.  We hope to publish this material in 
  _Children of Velgarth_, the Queen's Own fanzine, and it is easier to do 
  that from e-copy.

* If you're using a computer or word processor, use your spell-check!  
  Proof your material before you mail it. The spell-check won't catch 
  "it's" when you mean "its" or "herd" for "heard." If you're using a 
  typewriter, proof each page before you take it out. 

* Take time out every once in a while to read your story out loud. You 
  will be more likely to hear when "I am" sounds a bit stilted, and "I'm" 
  would read more natuarlly. Reading out loud also helps you find 
  typographical errors more easily. This is not a graded assignment, but 
  do your best. You want to be worthy of your title. 

E-mail Submission Option

If you want, you may submit personae materials via e-mail when possible. Send persona sketches, stories, poems and other written text in either MS Word or .txt/ASCII format. You can scan your CPR cards, pictures, costume designs, and so forth, and send them either as .jpgs or .gifs. E-mail submissions to both Herald-Mage Master Danya Winterborn (Legend@malcor.com) and Healer Adept Moonstar (healermoon@hotmail.com). If you do not have a scanner, you can still submit your text by e-mail and snail mail any pictures or other nontext items. 