                            Herald-Mage Handout

                  Criteria established by Mercedes Lackey

                  Based on the Heralds of Valdemar trilogy

Distributed by:

                                Queens Own
                   The Official Mercedes Lackey Fan Club
                               P.O. Box 749
                         Laguna Beach, CA 92652 USA

To become a Herald-Mage:

  1. Earn the points necessary to become a Herald.
  2. Roll two six-sided dice to determine if you can become a Herald-Mage. A twelve--and only a twelve--gets you Mage-Gift. You may not re-roll more often than once a month. After twelve tries, give it up; Fate is against you.

You are now at the Apprentice stage.

Herald-Mage, Hedge-Wizard

To earn the rank of Herald-Mage, Hedge-Wizard, learn the following
stage-magic tricks well enough to fool your friends:

   * Linking Rings
   * Restore Cut Rope
   * Appearing Coins, and
   * a simple Escape Trick.

Herald-Mage, Journeyman

To earn the rank of Herald-Mage, Journeyman, first qualify for
Hedge-Wizard. Then,

  1. Write a 20-page paper on the following subject and
  2. Submit it to an essay contest or to your History teacher for extra
     credit.

Topic: Analyze the Constitution, without the Amendments, and explain how
the Amendments have made the original document work in the modern world.

And

  3. Learn the following stage-magic tricks:
        o Dancing Handkerchief
        o Multiplying Coins
        o Restoring Cut Newspaper, and
        o Escape from Handcuffs.

Herald-Mage, Master

To earn the rank of Herald-Mage, Master, first qualify for Hedge-Wizard and Journeyman. Then

  1. Write a 20-page paper on one of the following subjects:
        o Machiavelli's The Prince
        o the Bill of Rights
        o Elizabeth I as a ruler
        o the Crusades from the Christian viewpoint or
        o the Crusades from the Moslem viewpoint.

Submit it to an essay contest or your History teacher for extra credit.

And

  2. Write a 20-page paper on "magic" as a form of particle energy and how it is similar to nuclear fusion and/or fission.

And

  3. Learn the following stage-magic tricks:
        o Hat and Egg
        o Escape from Ropes
        o Appearing/Multiplying Ping Pong Balls, and
        o your choice of Card Tricks.

Herald-Mage, Adept

To earn the rank of Herald-Mage, Adept, first qualify for Hedge-Wizard,
Journeyman, and Master. Then

  1. Write a 20-page paper on one of the following subjects:
        o King Arthur as a historical figure
        o the importance and obligations of the liege-lord in feudal
          society
        o Plato's Republic
        o the moral and ethical questions of creation and possession of
          nuclear weapons

Submit your paper to an essay contest or your History Teacher for extra
credit.

And

  2. Write a 20-page paper on the moral and ethical questions of
     possessions and use of Adept-Level power.

And

  3. Write a 20-page paper on the constraints that must be placed on the
     arbitrator.

And

  4. Learn the following stage-magic tricks:
        o Cutting a Person in Two Or More Pieces
        o Appearing Dove
        o your choice of Card Tricks you don't already know, and
        o your choice of Close-Up Magic Tricks you don't already know.

Lest you think I am being too hard on those who would be Herald-Mages, I
would like to point out that both Ellen Guon and myself qualify for Adept.  Like aspiring to Kal'enedral, if you want something extraordinary, you will have to make an extraordinary effort.

Guardian

For those wishing to have a Guardian persona, you must follow all the
guidelines for Herald-Mage, Adept rank,

And

  1. Write a 20-page paper on how stage-magic can be used to simulate the
     most common "mediumistic powers" (manifesting spirits, moving      tables, voices and objects from nowhere, appearance of ectoplasm, 
     etc.) and
  2. submit it to a local magazine.

And

  3. Write a 20-page paper on "modern myths" (the Hitchhiking Ghost, Ghost
     Lights, Kentucky Fried Rat, the Haunted Dormitory, the Lover's Lane
     Stalker, etc.) and
  4. submit it to a local magazine.

And

  5. Create a "modern myth" of your own
  6. Write it as a story

And

  7. Write a 20-page paper explaining how "unexplained phenomena" 
     (Floating Lights, Phantom Headlights, Psychic Attacks, deja vu, 
     spoon-bending, watch-stopping, etc.) can be explained by purely 
     mundane means.
  8. Submit it to a local magazine

And

  9. Write a 20-page paper on televangelism, and how the miracles shown 
     on a particular show can be explained by mundane means.
 10. Submit it to a local magazine.

Remember that Diana Tregarde spends as much time debunking phonies as she
does handling real "cases." And if Herald-Mages are rare, Guardians are a
hundred times rarer, so the effort is that much more.

These guidelines were determined by Misty herself.

As proof of your qualifications, send a brief description of each magic
trick and tell how you learned it (i.e., from a book, a magic shop, a
friend . . . )

Send a copy of each 20-page paper and tell where and when it was published. (Finding a publisher is part of the challenge. If the piece is too long for any local publisher to accept, let us know. Queen's Own will be starting an online nonfiction journal to take such materials. Published books count in place of papers if the book is on the same topic as the paper.)

Submit all materials to QO via the address at the top of this form.

E-mail Submission Option

If you want, you may submit personae materials via e-mail when possible.
Send persona sketches, stories, poems and other written text in either MS
Word or .txt/ASCII format. You can scan your CPR cards, pictures, costume
designs, and so forth, and send them either as .jpgs or .gifs. E-mail
submissions to both Herald-Mage Master Danya Winterborn (Legend@malcor.com) and Healer Adept Moonstar (healermoon@hotmail.com). If you do not have a scanner, you can still submit your text by e-mail and snail mail any pictures or other nontext items.