              The Helpful Handout of How to Become a Tayledras

                  Criteria established by Mercedes Lackey


Distributed by:

                                Queen's Own
                   The Official Mercedes Lackey Fan Club
                               P.O. Box 749
                         Laguna Beach, CA 92652 USA

Basic Requirements

I. Clan, Position and Mindspeech

Honor applies; what you roll is what you get.

Clan

Determine your Clan by rolling one six-sided die.

1: Falcon (k'Treva)
2: Owl (k'Vala)
3: Raven (k'Chona)
4: Eagle (k'Sheyna)
5: Fox (k'Vaia)
6: Ignore this result and reroll.

Position

Determine your Position within the clan by rolling one six-sided die.

1-2: Scout
3-4: Mage
5:   Adept
6:   Healer-Adept

Mindspeech

Determine what type of Mindspeech you have by rolling one six-sided die. 

1:   With your bondbird only
2-3: With your bondbird and non-human races (hertasi, dyheli, tervandi)
4-5: With your bondbird and humans
6:   With your bondbird, humans and other races

II. Develop a Character

Develop a character (your persona--Who would you be if you could daydream
yourself into Valdemar? Be the "real" you or as different as you please.)
and write about him/her. Prepare a minimum of 3 double-spaced pages, on 8.5 x 11 inch paper or computer printout paper. If you can't type, please write or print as clearly as possible.

This is a biography. Describe your persona's physical and emotional
characteristics, likes and dislikes, whatever makes you uniquely you. You
may use first or third person. (10 points)

III. Develop One or More Friend or Relative Characters

You needn't be quite so detailed in your descriptions of these other
characters. But remember, you are writing about people you know well.
Describe what your family and/or friends look like, their own character
traits, etc. Again, a minimum of 3 pages. (5 points)

IV. Extra Point Requirements (5 points each)

Choose and complete the requirements for two (minimum) of the following:

  A. Write a story of more than 3 pages.**
  B. Design a costume of Hawkbrother design. *1
  C. Create a costume. *2, *6
  D. Draw a picture of your character.
  E. Draw a picture of your Bondbird.
  F. Create a new Pelagris race.
  G. Illustrate your story.
  H. Write a poem about the Earth.
  I. Compose a song--music and/or write lyrics.
  J. Attend martial arts classes.
  K. Draw a map. *3
  L. Learn CPR and basic first-aid.
  M. Become a regular blood donor. *4
  N. Volunteer with an environmental group. *5
  O. Start a local chapter of Queen's Own.
  P. Write an essay on Falconry. Prepare a minimum of 3 double-spaced
     pages, on 8.5 x 11 inch paper or computer printout paper.
  Q. Learn the care and feeding of Raptors.
  R. Send a story, poem, or art to one of our zines. *7

**This story is in addition to your character sketches, even if they were
done in story form. Remember, if you wish to write a story set in Misty's
worlds, you need a release form. Send QO a SASE for the form. Fill it out
and mail it to Misty at Highflight, P.O. Box 8309, Tulsa, OK, 74101-8309.
Misty isn't trying to spoil our fun, but she must protect her interests.
You do not need a release for a character sketch, poem or filk.

*1 Design: Draw a picture of, or make a pattern for a costume. It must be
   original. Send a picture or sketch of your design with as much detail
   as possible.
*2 Create: The costume may be your own or another's design, but you must
   make it yourself. This involves actual sewing.
*3 Show the surroundings of your persona--childhood home, journeys, map
   of your Vale and its surroundings, etc.
*4 Make a commitment to donate blood at least three times a year.
*5 Send details of your community service to QO.
*6 Send QO a picture of you in your costume.
*7 These can be duplicates of your Tayledras's requirements. Tell me the
   name of the zine and what you submitted.

After you have acquired 25 points, you may become a member of the Vale!

In order to be formally recognized in the Queen's Own newsletter as having fulfilled the requirements established by Misty, you must send QO hard copies of your work. Be sure to list the Clan and Position you rolled for. Please type; if you cannot, please make everything as leginble as possible. Please send the material to us all at once and in a flat envelope. You've worked hard on this project; treat it with the respect you want us to show it.

Because we all believe in honor, the decision was made to include your
Healer designation in the Fan Messages, if that is how you identify
yourself.

Developing Your Character

One persona to a customer. If you outgrow your persona, you may develop a
new one, but recognition in the newsletter goes to first-time personas.

Remember to roll for Clan and Position first; it is the prerequisite for
developing your persona. You can't write your story without knowing who you are.

Each individual is free to develop material in accordance with the setting described in Misty's books; however, her copyrighted characters may not be used for this purpose. You many not claim to be directly related to any of Misty's characters. In other words, you can't be Elcarth's son or Ancar's daughter. Make your own status. You also cannot use Misty's copyrighted characters as major characters in any story you may write. If they're just passing through, that's okay.

Stay within the rules of the Books. Characters should stay within Talia's time, and use an alternate time-line in which Kris doesn't die but staggers into camp about a day after Dirk rescues Talia. This keeps the world you live in and the one Misty writes about comfortably and legally separate. Your characters may be any sex you choose. No Royalty.

A persona is like a biography. In it, you want to describe your character
so fully that anyone reading it will feel s/he knows you: what you look
like (tall/short, slim/stocky, hair color, eye color, dark or light
complexion, smooth/callused hands, etc.), how you get along with other
members of your family, where and when you were born and grew up
(castle/cottage/tent, town/farm/desert), how you were trained
(school/tutor/apprentice), a few of your favorite things (summer
rain/cherry pie/kittens), what you did in your spare time, your skills
(riding/weaving/fighting/cooking/healing/playing a musical instrument),
those things which make you the unique and very special person you are.
Being a Tayledran shouldn't come free--You should have to work for it.

Helpful Hints

* Put your name on absolutely everything you send to QO. If you want it
  back, supply us with an address label and sufficient postage. Better
  yet, send us copies and keep the originals. Even better, see the
  e-mail option below to save on postage. We hope to publish this
  material in _Children of Velgarth_, the Queen's Own fanzine, and it 
  is easier to do that from e-copy.

* If you're using a computer or word processor, use your spell-check!
  Proof your material before you mail it. The spell-check won't catch
  "it's" when you mean "its" or "herd" for "heard." If you're using a
  typewriter, proof each page before you take it out.

* Take time out every once in a while to read your story out loud. You
  will be more likely to hear when "I am" sounds a bit stilted, and
  "I'm" would read more natuarlly. Reading out loud also helps you find
  typographical errors more easily. This is not a graded assignment, but
  do your best. You want to be worthy of being Tayledran!

E-mail Submission Option

If you want, you may submit personae materials via e-mail when possible.
Send persona sketches, stories, poems and other written text in either MS
Word or .txt/ASCII format. You can scan your CPR cards, pictures, costume
designs, and so forth, and send them either as .jpgs or .gifs. E-mail
submissions to both Herald-Mage Master Danya Winterborn (Legend@malcor.com) and Healer Adept Moonstar (healermoon@hotmail.com). If you do not have a scanner, you can still submit your
text by e-mail and snail mail any pictures or other nontext items.